Plugin dev docs (#1043)
Deltares/hydromt: docs/guides/plugin_dev/custom_model.rst

function on your model like so:

```python
class AwesomeModel:
   def __init__(self, ...):
      super().__init__(...)
      self.add_component("extra_grid", GridComponent)
      # extra customisation code here...
```

Please make sure to call the `super().__init__` function before you do anything else to
setup your class so that the base functionality also get's run properly.

Additional Model properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You can have a look at the :ref:`Model API documentation <model_api>` to find out all other properties of the ``Model`` class and
the other subclasses. Apart from the components here are a couple of useful properties to use when developing your plugin:

- :py:attr:`~Model.root`: path to the root folder of the model instance you are working with.
- :py:attr:`~Model.crs`: the reference coordinate system (pyproj.CRS) of the model.
- :py:attr:`~Model.region`: A shortcut to retrieve region data from the designated
     spacial component
- :py:attr:`~Model.data_catalog`: the current data catalog you can use to add data to your model.
- :py:attr:`~Model.logger`: the HydroMT logger object for your model instance.

> .. _plugin_setup:

Reviewer: I would make this tag more specific, now that there is more plugin behaviour in the rest of the code

Setup basic model objects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
When building a model from scratch, the first thing you should do is take inventory of
what your components need. As already mentioned most of the behaviour will be defined in

> the components, but over arching functionality that doesn't necessarily belong to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the components, but overarching functionality that doesn't necessarily belong to a
```

        ds_out = ds_out.rename(rmdict)
        # 4. Add to grid
        self.set_grid(ds_out)

.. NOTE::

  **Input data type of the setup method**: Typically a setup function tries to go from one type of dataset
  (landuse raster) to a HydroMT model component (landuse map in ``maps``). So it's good to make clear for your user in
  the setup function docstrings which type of input data this function can work with. You could decide to support
  several data types in one setup function but be aware that the GIS processing functions like resampling, reprojection can
  be quite different for a raster or a vector for example. So you could decide to create two setup functions that
  prepare the same data but from different type of input data (eg *setup_landuse_from_raster* and *setup_landuse_from_vector*).

Processes
^^^^^^^^^
We encourage developers and users to define their functionality using functions that can
be organised into separate modules or scripts. This can keep your class definitions from
becoming very large unwieldy to work with as well as making it easier to make sure all
the functionalities are properly tested (which we encourage even more strongly!)

> Because the python script defining your plugin Model class can get quite long and it  In

Reviewer: This sentence is not yet finished.

HydroMT these are usually called processes (prior to V1 these were called workflows, but
that name is now used for the yaml interface, and therefore were renamed to processes).
These processes are usually stored in separate python scripts that you can decide to store in a process subfolder.

A couple of tips if you want to define processes:

- check out the :ref:`process available` in HydroMT core
- avoid passing the HydroMT model class to your process function, but pass the required
  arguments directly. try to do this:
  .. NOTE::
      def interpolate_grid(grid: xr.DataSet, crs: CRS):
         ...

   not this:
   .. WARNING::
      def interpolate_grid(model: AwesomeModel):
         grid = model.grid
         ...

   Ideally the workflows work from common python objects like xarray or geopandas rather than with the ``Model`` class.

> - if you want to do some GIS processing on ``RasterDataset`` or ``GeoDataset``, HydroMT defines a lot of useful methods. Check out the :ref: `Raster methods API doc` for RasterDataset and :ref: `GeoDataset methods API doc`. For ``GeoDataFrame``, the `geopandas <https://geopandas.org/en/stable/index.html>`_ library should have most of what you need (and for ``UgridDataset`` or mesh, the `xugrid <https://deltares.github.io/xugrid/>`_ library). For computing or deriving other variables from an input dataset, HydroMT contains also a couple of useful workflows for example ``flwdir`` for flow direction methods, ``basin_mask`` to derive basin shape, or ``stats`` to derive general, efficiency or extreme value statistics from data.

Reviewer: You can create direct links to python API code using sphinx
